in the previous video we talked about
evaluation metrics in this video I'd
like to switch tracks a bit and touch on
another important aspect the machine
learning system design wolf which will
often come up which is the issue of how
much data to train on now in some
earlier videos I had cautioned against
blindly going out and just spending lots
of time collecting lots of data because
there's only some times that that were
actually called but it turns out that
under certain conditions and I'll say in
this video what those conditions are
getting a lot of data and training on a
certain type of learning algorithm can
be a very effective way to get a
learning algorithm to give very good
performance and this arises often enough
that those conditions hold true for your
problem and if you're able to get a lot
of data this could be a very good way to
get a very high performance learning
algorithm so in this video let's talk
more about that let me start with a
story many many years ago two
researchers that i know michelle banko
and eric bro ran the following
fascinating study they were interested
of studying the effect of using
different learning algorithms versus
trying them out on different training
set sciences they were considering the
problem of classifying between
confusable words so for example in the
sentence for breakfast I ate should it
be tea OTW or tea or well for this
example for breakfast I ate TW o28 so
this is one example of said that
confusable words and that's a different
set and so they took machine learning
problems like these sort of supervised
learning problems to try to categorize
what is the appropriate word to go into
a certain position in an English
sentence they took a few different
learning algorithms which were you know
sort of considered state-of-the-art back
in the day when they ran this study in
2001 so they took a variance roughly a
variant on logistic regression in color
perception they also took some of their
elements that word say they got back
then but are someone that's to use now
so that whenever I'm also very similar
to logistic regression but different in
some ways much use somewhat less you use
not too much right now took what's
called a memory based learning algorithm
we can use somewhat less now so I'll
talk a little bit about that later and
they use the naive Bayes algorithm which
which is something to actually talk
about in this course the exact
algorithms of these details aren't
different aren't important
think of this less you know just picking
four different classification algorithms
and then really the exact algorithms
aren't important but what they did was
they varied the training set size and
tried out these learning algorithms on
the range of training set sizes and
that's the result they got and the
trends are very clear right first most
of these algorithms to give remarkably
similar performance and second as the
training set size increases on the
horizontal axis is the training set size
in millions as you go from you know a
hundred thousand up to a thousand
million that is a billion training
examples the performance of the
algorithms all pretty much monotonically
increase and the fact if you pick any
algorithm maybe pick a core inferior
algorithm but if you give that quote
inferior algorithm more data then it
from these examples it looks like there
will most likely beat even equal
superior algorithm so since this
original study which is very influential
there's been a range of many different
studies showing similar results that
show that many different learning
algorithms you know tend to can
sometimes depending on details can do
pretty similar ranges of performance but
what can really drive performance is if
you can give the algorithm
data and this is results like these has
lets us say in in machine learning that
often the machine learning is not who
has the best algorithm that wins is who
has the most data so when it's just true
and when is this not true because we
have a learning algorithm for which this
is true then getting a lot of data is
often maybe the best way to ensure that
we have an algorithm who have very high
performance rather than you know
debating worrying about exactly which of
these albums to use let's try to learn a
set of assumptions under which having a
massive training set we think will be
able to help let's assume that in a
machine learning problem the features X
have sufficient information with which
we can use to predict Y accurately for
example if we take the confusable words
problem that we had in the previous
slide let's say that features X capture
what are the surrounding words around
the blank that we're trying to fill in
so the features capture that we want to
have with sentence for breakfast I ate
black eggs then you know that's pretty
much enough information to tell me that
the word that one in the middle is T wo
and that is nothing worth tio and it's
not the word tio
so the features capture you know one of
these surrounding words then that gives
me enough information to pretty
unambiguously decide what is the label
why or in other words what is the word
that I should be using to fill in that
blank out of this set of three
confusable words so that's an example of
where the features X have sufficient
information to predict Y for a counter
example consider the problem of
predicting the price of a house from
only the size of the house and from no
other features so if you imagine I tell
you that houses you know five hundred
square feet but I don't give you any
other features I don't tell you if the
house is in an expensive part of the
city or if I don't tell you if the house
the number of rooms in the house or how
nice the furnish the house is or whether
the house is new or old if I don't tell
you anything other than that this is a
five hundred square foot house well
there are so many other factors that
will affect the price of a house other
than just the size of the holes that if
all you know the size is actually very
difficult to predict the price
accurately so that would be a counter
example to this assumption that the
features have sufficient information to
predict the price to the design level
accuracy meaning the way I think about
testing this assumption one way I often
think about it is I often ask myself
given the input features X or given the
features given the same information
available to a learning algorithm if we
were to go to a human expert in this
domain can a human experts accurately
Orkin human experiment ly predict the
value of y for this first example if we
go to you know an expert human English
speaker that you go to some of them
speak English well right then the human
experts in English just really most
people like you and me would probably
would probably be able to predict what
words should go in here so a good
English speaker can predict as well and
so this gives me confidence that X
allows us predict Y accurately but in
contrast if we would go to an expert in
human prices like maybe an expert
realtor right someone who sells houses
for a living if I just tell them the
size of a house
tell them what is what the price is well
even an expert in pricing or selling
houses wouldn't be able to tell me and
so there's a sign that for the housing
price example knowing only the size
doesn't give me enough information to
predict the price of the house so let's
say this assumption holds let's see then
when having a lot of data it could help
suppose the features have enough
information to predict the value of my
and let's suppose we use a learning
algorithm with a large number of
parameters so maybe logistic regression
or linear regression with a large number
of features or one thing that I
sometimes do one thing that often
directly is used a neural network with
many hidden units there'll be another
learning algorithm with a lot of
parameters so these are all powerful
learning algorithms with a lot of
parameters that can fit very complex
functions so I'm gonna call these we're
going to think of these as low bias
algorithms because you know they can fit
very complex functions and because we
have a very powerful learning algorithm
that can fit very complex functions
chances are if we run these algorithms
on the data set it will be able to fit
the training set well and so hopefully
the training error will be small now
let's say we use a massive massive
training set in that case and we have a
huge training set then hopefully even
though we have a lot of parameters but
if the training set is sort of even much
larger than the number of parameters
then hopefully these algorithms will be
unlikely to overfit right because we
have such a massive training set and by
unlikely to overfit what that means is
that the training error will hopefully
be close to the test error finally
putting these two together if the
training set error is small and the test
set error is close to the training error
what these two together imply is that
hopefully the test set
we'll also be small another way to think
about this is that in order to have high
performance learning algorithm we wanted
not to have high buyers and not to have
high variance so the bias problem we're
going to address by making sure we have
a learning algorithm with many
parameters and so that gives us a little
bias algorithm and by using a very large
training set this ensures that we don't
have a variance problem either and so
hopefully our algorithm will have low
variance and so it's by putting these
two together that we end up with a
little bias and a low variance learning
algorithm and this allows us to do well
on the test set and fundamentally it is
the key ingredients of assuming that the
features have enough information and we
have a rich class of functions that's
why guarantees low bias and then it's
having a massive training set that
that's what guarantees no variance
so this gives us a set of conditions
wrong hopefully some understanding of
what's the sort of problem where if you
have a lot of data and you train a
learning algorithm with a moment
parameters that might be a good way to
give a high performance learning
algorithm and really I think the key
test that I often ask myself are first
can a human expert look at the features
X and confidently predict the value of y
because there's sort of a certification
that y can indeed be predicted
accurately from the features X and
second can we actually get a large
training set and train the learning
algorithm for long time selection sets
and if you can do both then that will
often give you a very high performance
learning how